---
title: Next Release Problem
category: Case Studies
order: 2
---

An example implementation using MDEOptimiser can be found in [this](https://github.com/mde-optimiser/case_studies) repository.

#### Introduction

The aim of the next release problem (NRP) is to find the most suitable set of tasks to include in the next release for a software product, to minimise the cost and to maximise the customer satisfaction. Each Customer has a desire which can consist of one or many SoftwareArtifacts. SoftwareArtifacts can have a dependency on other SoftwareArtifacts.

To solve this problem, the user is required to assign instances of SoftwareArtifacts to a NextRelease such that the total cost of the selected SoftwareArtifacts is minimised and the total customer satisfaction is maximised.

The minimal set of required rules for this case study is simple, only requiring a mutations to add and remove an edge between a Solution and a SoftwareArtifact. However, the difference between this case study and the others considered in this paper is that the selection of a SoftwareArtifact, directly influences the Cost fitness function and indirectly influences the Customer Satisfaction objective. A SoftwareArtifact is considered for the calculation of a RequirementRealization, only when all its dependencies are also assigned to the solution. With this difference, we aim to evaluate how the generated rules explore the search space in cases where the fitness functions provide only coarse-granular guidance.

The input models used for this case study have also been automatically generated by the authors using a random model generator implemented using Java. A brief description of these models has been included in the table below. 

| Next Release Problem |    |     |
|:--------------------:|----|-----|
| Input Model          | A  | B   |
| Customers            | 5  | 25  |
| Requirements         | 25 | 50  |
| Software Artifacts   | 63 | 203 |